minfo(1) -- display information about your Apple computer
=========================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`minfo`
`minfo -j|--json`
`minfo -c|--cache[=false]`
`minfo -r|--refresh[=false]`
`minfo -d|--display-logo[=false]`
`minfo -l|--logo <path/to/logo>`
`minfo -i|--items`
`minfo -c|--config </path/to/config-file>`

## DESCRIPTION

**minfo** is a tool which displays informatino about your computer/OS.
It only works on **macOS**.

Information is displayed in plain text, with an ASCII art logo.
You can display the information without the logo, or just in JSON.

You can list all the information that **minfo** can fetch by running `minfo -i`.

Unless specified otherwise, a cache file is used to cache information
unlikely to change:
- model,
- serial number,
- CPU,
- GPU,
- Memory

The ASCII art logo support both 16 and 256 colors terminal.

## OPTIONS

  * `-c|--config config-file`:
    Path to the configuration file to use.
    If there is no configuration file, default choices will be made.
    Optional (default: `~/.config/minfo/config.yaml`).

  * `-j|--json`:
    Displays the information as JSON instead plain text.
    Optional (default: false).

  * `-c|--cache`:
    Use/Don't use the cache file.
    Optional (default: true).
    `--cache=false` is mutually exclusive with `--refresh=true`.

  * `-r|--refresh`:
    Refresh/Don't refresh the cache file.
    Optional (default: false).
    `--refresh=true` is mutually exclusive with `--cache=false`.

  * `-d|--display-logo`:
    Display/don't display the ASCII art image.
    Optional (default: true).
    Ignored if --json is set.

  * `-l|--logo`:
    ASCII art logo to use
    Optional (default $HOMEBREW_PREFIX/share/minfo/apple or $HOME/.config/minfo/logo)
    Ignored if --json is set.

  * `-i|--items`:
    Displays the list of all available items and exit.

  * `-v|--version`:
    Displays the version of **minfo** and exit.


## Cache file

There is a cache file (by default `~/.cache/minfo/static.json`) which caches some information
that are unlikely to change: computer model, serial number, CPU, GPU, memory.
Location of the cache file can be customized in the configuration file.

- You can ask the tool to not use the cache with command line parameter `--cache`.
- You can ask the tool to refresh the cache with command line parameter `--refresh`.

`--refresh=true` and `--cache=false` are mutualy exclusive.

## Weather cache file
If you request the "weather" item, then we cache the information for 15 minutes, so
that we don't do too much requests on open-meteo.com.
The cache file is located in `~/.cache/minfo/weather.json`.

## Logo

You can decide not to display the Apple logo with command line parameter `--display-logo=false`.
Logo is displayed in color, and support 16/256colors terminals.

You can provide your own ASCII art logo.
The format for the file is the following:
`<ansi_code_color256> <ansi_code_color16> text`

or just text (but if you provide colors, you need to provide both 256/16 colors).

with:
- <ansi_code_color256> being the ANSI color for 256 colors terminal
- <ansi_code_color16> being the ANSI color for 16 colors terminal

Note that empty lines and lines starting with `//` are ignored.

If you installed `minfo` from homebrew, you'll have sample logos at
`$HOMEBREW_PREFIX/share/minfo/`. Default logo will be `$HOMEBREW_PREFIX/share/minfo/apple`
or `$HOME/.config/minfo/logo`.

### Example (single line):

`\033[38;5;028m \033[00;32m       ########   ############`

or

`      ########   ############`

## Weather
The current weather is fetched at open-meteo.com.
The following information is provided:
- Weather description
- Temperature
- Feels like temperature
- Wind direction (provided as a small arrow character)
- Wind speed
- Wind gusts speed

The weather information uses 2 lines of information (1 for location + weather description,
and the other one for temperature/wind).

In the configuration file you need to provide as least the city and country (in english)

    weather:
      location_name_en: "Geneva"
      location_country_en: "Switzerland"

Note: if you request the "weather" item but don't provide the location, the default
location is Geneva, Switzerland.

You can add the following optional parameters
- `location_state_en`: in case several cities have the same name, you can provide the state (in english).
- `lang`: language to use for the current weather description.
  - Currently only "en" (default) or "fr" (french)
- `units`: unit to use for temperature and wind speed
  - metric: Celsius and km/h
  - imperial: Fahrenheit and mp/h

## JSON output

You can output JSON instead of text by using command line parameter `--json`.

## Configuration file

Configuration file is optional.
- The configuration file is written in YAML.
- If no configuration file exist, default choices will be made.
- If the configuration file exists but some items are not defined, default choices will be made.

In the configuration file, you can define

- Location of the cache file,
- Location of the ASCII art logo,
- Should we use the cache?
- Should we display the logo?
- Items to be displayed.

Choose the list of items to be displayed among the items listed when running `minfo --items`.

By default, the tool will look for a configuration file located at `~/.config/minfo.yml`,
but you can specify another location with command line parameter `--config <path_to_file>`.

You will find a sample configuration file in `$HOMEBREW_PREFIX/etc/minfo/minfo.yml.sample`

## Examples

Default layout

    $ minfo
                                     User           John Doe (jdoe)
                        ##           Hostname       jdoe-laptop
                      ####           OS             macOS Sequoia 15.2 (24C101) Darwin 24.2.0
                    #####            macOS SIP      Enabled
                   ####              Serial         XXXXXXXXXX
          ########   ############    Model          MacBook Pro 16-inch (Nov 2024) Z1FW0008GSM/A
        ##########################   CPU            Apple M4 Max 16 cores (12 P and 4 E)
      ###########################    GPU            40 cores
      ##########################     Memory         64 GB LPDDR5
     ##########################      Disk           2.00 TB (1.14 TB available)
     ##########################      Disk SMART     Verified
     ###########################     Battery        94% (discharging) | 100% capacity
      ############################   Battery health Good
      #############################  Display #1     3456 x 2234 | 1728 x 1117 @ 120 Hz
       ############################  Terminal       iTerm.app
         ########################    Software       65 Apps | 227 Formulae | 37 Casks
          ######################     Public IP      178.195.102.237 (Switzerland)
            #######    #######       Uptime         1 days, 19 hours
                                     Date/Time      Sun, 22 Dec 2024 16:58:33 CET

JSON output

    $ minfo -j
    {
      "model": {
        "name": "MacBook Pro",
        "sub_name": "16-inch",
        "date": "Nov 2024",
        "number": "Z1FW0008GSM/A"
      },
      "cpu": {
        "model": "Apple M4 Max",
        "cores": 16,
        "performance_cores": 12,
        "efficiency_cores": 4
      },
      "gpu_cores": 40,
      "memory": {
        "amount": 64,
        "unit": "GB",
        "type": "LPDDR5"
      },
      "serial_number": "XXXXXXXXXX",
      "user": {
        "real_name": "John Doe",
        "login": "jdoe"
      },
      "hostname": "jdoe-laptop",
      "os": {
        "system": "macOS",
        "system_version": "15.2",
        "system_build": "24C101",
        "system_version_code_name": "Sequoia",
        "kernel_type": "Darwin",
        "kernel_version": "24.2.0"
      },
      "system_integrity": "integrity_enabled",
      "disk": {
        "total_tb": 1.9952183,
        "free_tb": 1.1365209,
        "smart_status": "Verified"
      },
      "battery": {
        "status_percent": 93,
        "capacity_percent": 100,
        "health": "Good"
      },
      "displays": [
        {
          "pixels_width": 3456,
          "pixels_height": 2234,
          "resolution_width": 1728,
          "resolution_height": 1117,
          "refresh_rate_hz": 120
        }
      ],
      "software": {
        "num_apps": 65,
        "num_homebrew_formulae": 227,
        "num_homebrew_casks": 37
      },
      "terminal": "iTerm.app",
      "uptime": "1 days, 19 hours",
      "datetime": "Sun, 22 Dec 2024 16:58:35 CET",
      "public_ip": {
        "query": "178.195.102.237",
        "country": "Switzerland"
      }
    }

Display available items

    $ minfo --items
    Available information to choose from:
      battery
      cpu
      datetime
      disk
      display
      gpu
      hostname
      memory
      model
      os
      public_ip
      serial_number
      software
      system_integrity
      terminal
      uptime
      user
      weather
    